Now we are ready to estimate our work, but before we do,
we're going to have a couple of prerequisites.
We want to make sure that the WBS is complete,
and also all the resources are assigned,
and a little tip, you know, when you assign your resources,
it helps you better make the estimate, will it be a junior programmer,
maybe a senior programmer,
and many times those estimates to get the work done might
be different based on the skill sets, the training,
and items like that.
Okay, so for each task that we have in the WBS,
we want to make an estimate of hours.
Next, if you've assigned a generic resource like software engineer or TBD,
that's certainly okay,
go ahead and make a rough estimate anyway for like
the generic software engineer.
So again, I always believe in keep it simple,
make it easy to create estimates, you may not have all the answers at one time,
that's okay, start roughing out your estimate.
Also, please check out one of my other Pluralsight courses,
Best Practices for Project Estimation,
that course provides all the tools you need for creating an affective estimate,
so here's a whole class, and all we have here of course is just two slides,
so obviously there's a lot of things you may learn
if you look at the other class.
Okay, let's see some examples.
Now here's the same example we've been using throughout this module,
and last time we added the Who and the When columns,
this time we're going to add estimated hours and confidence factor.
So there's the list of our estimated hours,
so for the first task, I put 4 hours, 2 hours,
20 hours, and as I'm putting those hours,
I'm looking across on who's going to do the work to give me a better
idea of the skillsets and how long it might take to do,
and you may also want to do this with that person and in a team setting,
and the whole list of tasks adds up to 411 hours.
Now next I want to look over to the Confidence Factor column,
and what this is saying is how confident am I that my
estimates are pretty true and accurate.
So for the first one there, I feel that 4 hours is right on the money,
and I'm 100% confident.
Now on this next one, I'm only 50% confident, and I said it's about 40 hours.
What's nice about having the confidence factor is it
allows you to circle back around later, maybe do some more analysis on that task,
have more discussions with your team, possibly with your customers,
and you want to get that bumped up as close as you can to 100.
No estimate is perfect,
but the confidence factor is a nice little feature to find out and to
understand where you are on each of those particular tasks. Okay, next let's move on to making a schedule.